Since the last video I've gone ahead and fleshed out our scene a bit I've added a floor a couple of
walls and I've also filled in in the bookshelves.
Now one thing I want to mention is that it's a lot easier to model if your objects are in the center
of the grid and they're oriented to the world axes.
What I did in the last video is i moved this over and I angled it a bit just to make it look like it's
in the corner of a room and that's fine.
But what I should have done is gone ahead and finished modeling and duplicating and placing all the
books while the bookshelf was aligned to the x axis or the Y or Z.
So it's a lot easier to move things along the world axes rather than have them be angled like I did
with the bookshelf here.
But having said that there are a couple of organizational things I wanted to show you here what I've
done is I've created just polygon planes.
I just went to the Create tab and created a polygon plane and scaled it out to the floor.
I then duplicated it for the wall and duplicated it again for the wall here.
Now I've gone through and I've renamed all my main objects like this table.
If I hover over the outliner here and press the period key on the numpad it will frame up or zoom into
that particular object and I've named this table.
If I select the bookshelf you can see I've named this bookshelf and the walls of course.
Here is the floor.
Here's the wall.
And here is the other wall.
Now I had named this original book book and duplicated it and therefore looks like I've got 83 or 84
books here all in the bookshelves but it's kind of a mess here in the outliner you can see that they're
just tons of them.
And if we were to create a more complex scene this would get even worse.
So how to organize these in the outliner.
If you'll remember we created these objects on different layers.
So here's the bookshelf and on the bookshelf layer I've also created the floor and walls.
And here's the little layer for the table.
And here's the one for all the books.
So I have a relatively easy way to select only the books.
Now I just choose the layer that they're on and select them.
A good way to select a large group of objects like this is to press the be key on the keyboard for border
select and then click and drag and that should select all those objects.
Now what I'd like to do is to group these all into one group so it isn't filling up the outliner here
to do that.
I can press control G and A group has been created I can come over here to the left hand panel and call
these books.
Call this Books Group.
OK so now that all those are in a group what is that done for us.
Not a lot.
All the books are still here.
So my point is that grouping in Blendr may not do exactly what you think it should do.
We can see our group over here in the scenes this pull down.
We can change the way we view the outliner from all scenes to groups.
And there's our group we can select it and select all those objects in a group but it didn't help us
organize the books in the outliner.
So really groups are more for selection purposes.
Well that's great you say but how do I organize the outliner.
Let's go over here to the Create tab and let's scroll down and create an empty an empty is just an object
in the scene that has no visibility.
It only has a location and that's it.
So when we create this empty it will be created at the point of the 3D cursor.
Let's go ahead and move that cursor back to the center of the grid by pressing shift s cursor to center
and let's create the empty click that there are empty.
And there it is in the outliner.
So what am I to do is rename this and call it Books Group.
Now I'm going to press the period on the numpad and it'll zoom to that point.
So now here is a group type object that we can use in the outliner.
So now how do we do this what we need to do is de-select everything with the Aiki press the Beaky drag
select all the books here shift's select the books group and now press control P..
And what we can do is we can parent all of those objects to that empty.
And we want to go ahead and keep the transform and there we go.
Now you can see very clearly that all of those book objects are printed to that empty.
And what it did is it put them all underneath that books group item in the outliner.
So that helped us clean up the outliner.
Now one annoying thing here is all the relationship lines and that's easy to fix.
I'm going to press the end key and if we scroll down to the display area we can see here in display
that we've got this setting for relationship lines.
Let's just uncheck that.
I keep that off pretty much all the time anyway or press in to close that panel and there you have it.
We've got now all of our objects here in a group we can select that group.
Now we could move it around with the G key we could rotate it scale it whatever we want to do.
But at least now it's a little more organized in the outliner.
All right.
Well let's bring back our other objects here.
And even though this is a series on modeling I think it's important to be able to render something out
quickly so you can just see how the models look in your scene sometimes just seeing them hear it with
the gray material isn't very inspiring.
So let's create a quick render of our scene.
Now what I'm going to do is use the cycle's render engine so if your blender is set to the blender internal
go ahead and come up here and change it to the cycle's render engine.
I think it's a lot better than the blender internal.
I love what they've been doing with the development of the cycle's render engine and it's a lot of fun
to use.
And when I say fun here's one of the fun things I think that is kind of cool.
You can actually turn an object into a light.
Now to render the scene we're going to need a light in the scene but we don't have to use these lamps
here in the create tab.
We've got a point light a sun spot himi an area light and we can talk about those later in a entire
lighting series.
But for now the way I think you can create a quick interesting render of your 3D models is by using
a polygon plane and assigning it a material that allows it to become a light.
It's kind of cool.
So let's do that.
I'm going to click plane here to create a Polygonum plane.
And I'm going to just drag this up and move it to one side here.
And I'll call this light plane so I know what it is.
Now we have a land in the scene already that's way over here on this layer.
I don't know if you recall we moved the lamp and the camera over here will need this camera to render
our scene but we can go ahead and delete the light here quickly.
If you notice when I select this light the transform manipulator is kind of at an angle because I have
my transformation orientation here set to local.
I can change that by just clicking that and changing it to global.
And now it aligns with the world axes here.
I'll just delete this by pressing the x key and clicking delete.
Now if I go back to my scene here here's that Polygram I'm playing that I created I'm going to press
the ESC key and scale it up a bit.
So it's relatively big and I will rotate it
and place it so it's shining down into my seam maybe something like this and we go now that's going
to be our light to make this a light.
We need to assign a material to it and then make that material and emission material so it actually
emits light.
So over here in the properties panel and to come over to the material area and I'm just going to click
new for new material and there we go.
Now it's created a material of type diffuse I'm going to change the name of this to light mission just
so I know what it is.
And instead of diffuse material Let's change this to emission.
All right.
So now what well blender has a render preview option right down here.
We can change the type of viewport shading from solid or texture to rendered.
Let's do that.
So now you can see that this polygon plane is emitting light into the scene.
And if we zoom in we can see what's happening here.
We can increase the strength of the light here.
Let's say we take it up to three and there we go.
And now you'll begin to hear the fan in my computer kick on as blender tries to render the scene on
the fly and that's fine.
It shouldn't be too loud.
I hope I'm going to take this light object and select it you can see I've clicked on it.
You can see that highlighted over here in the outliner and I'll press the G key and just move it up.
So I can rearrange where the light is coming from.
Maybe I want it a little brighter.
Let's see what happens if I get four.
That's kind of nice.
So now how do I render a single image of this what I need to do is place the camera here and remember
the camera.
If I shift click this layer here the camera is on this layer.
I'm going to switch back to the shaded view or the solid view real quick and we can see the camera here.
It's kind of tiny.
We could scale it up it doesn't really matter how big or small it is.
But what I'd like to do is move the camera here that we're going to render the scene from to this place
here where I have the perspective camera to do that I can come over here to the view option the view
menu go to align view and I can choose a line active camera to view or as you can see here control alt
numpad zero.
So I'll just click that and that changes the camera view to the point where I was with the perspective
camera and that's fine but it's not exactly where I want it to be.
I've tumbled around I've just used the middle mouse button to tumble out of that view.
What I think I'll do is create two views one for the render camera and one for perspective camera.
So to create an extra view I'm just going to grab this little corner part right here and drag it down
and now we have two views in our interface here.
We can change one of these to the camera point of view so hovering over this top one all Press Control
alt and zero and there is our camera perspective.
Now I can tumble around here and move around in this view while still having the camera perspective
here up at the top.
So what I'll do is go to my move tool and this time I want to move in the local access for change from
global to local and now I can just move this camera around until I get it the way I want it to pull
out.
Bring it down a bit.
All right so once I've got the camera placed Now what I'd like to do is actually render out an image
to do that I can come over to the render camera here on the properties window.
And currently I've got when I click render I have the option of having it render out in a new window
or in the image editor or full screen.
I like to use a new window.
It pops a new window up over the interface and I kind of like that.
So I'm going to choose a new window and then I'll just click render and now it's going to render out
my scene.
Now it's kind of grainy here.
I'd like to clean that up just a bit.
So I'll close this and to clean up that grain.
Just a quick way to do that is to scroll down in the render panel here.
And under sampling this is where I can increase the resolution or the quality of the final render this
preview is when we use the render viewport shading.
That's what this preview is.
But for the final render Let's take this up to say 100.
See how that works.
So I'll scroll back up and hit render.
Now it's going to take a little longer now because it has to work harder but it should clean up some
of that grain.
And there we have a simple render of Arsene.
So in the next video we'll look at using basic objects combining them together to create more complex
objects.